hey guys welcome to today's educational
video you have to watch this video if
you decided to apply to an American
University because today we're gonna go
to MIT admissions page and we're just
gonna go through every single step I'm
gonna explain you what everything means
what do you have to do what you should
avoid doing so step by step explanation
if you're interested and if you're
applying to an American University
continue watching this video
I decided to look at MIT s MBA page for
this video
just because MBAs are the toughest
programs to get into there are so many
details that are pretty much the same
for every level of education like before
talking about bachelor's master's PhD
MBA the admissions criteria gonna be
pretty much the same there are some
things to remember some things to
consider and I'm gonna mention them
there are some different exams but again
the process is pretty much the same the
terms are pretty much the same so let's
do it let me explain everything okay
we're going to the admissions section
the first thing when you're applying to
university you need to realize first
whether you can afford it
financial aid there's another video for
that second what do you need to apply
because sometimes the application
deadline is in two months and you're
like oops
I haven't fast my GMAT yet I haven't
passed my SAT yet have investments
hopefully yet which means that you
cannot apply in two months
because yeah two months is too tough
okay you realize you want to apply to
MIT or any other college go to the how
to apply section okay and let's start
here the first thing they're asking you
for is your cover letter which basically
is a person statement slash motivation
letter different universities use
different terms because this is more a
professional program MBA they would want
to see like a cover letter that you will
use to apply for a job if we're talking
about like standing masters that would
be a personal statement and we're
talking about bachelors that would be
personal statement motivational letter
whatever you call it
the thing is sometimes they require too
sometimes they require one sometimes
they require three question that
everybody asks is why have you decided
to pursue this step of education at this
time of your life and why are university
like these questions everybody asks them
and then depending on the university
they would ask different things again
here um so MIT Sloan six students whose
personal characteristic demonstrate that
they will make the most of the
incredible
at MIT both academic and non-academic so
basically they want to see how you would
perform on campus but they don't have
like a specific question for you
some universities would for example
Columbia's bachelors program they asking
you if you could give one advice to 16
year olds what would this be because
you're already like 17 or 18 when you're
applying Stanford asks you what is the
most important thing in your life and
why so there are so many things they're
asking but basically what they're
looking for are your personal stories
what is driving you what is behind all
of those nice words that you're saying
like nobody's looking for a personal
statement where you're like oh my god I
love you University I'm so excited I
want to be like a cool professional I
wouldn't maybe start moon company
someday like this is bull I'm not gonna
that's why I'm in this this is not the
best example what they're looking for is
I was curing a disease and I realized
that this this and that
is under study and I know our body is a
huge system that can be improved and
this is what I'm gonna say biotechnology
or whatever like tell them stories that
made you do whatever you're doing apply
to the University next step resume the
rule of thumb here is that if you have
less than 10 years of experience your
resume should not be longer than one
page please please please I've seen so
many resumes of five six pages Oh guys
come on like nobody wants to hear about
I know all of the publications that
you've had they don't want to hear about
like all of the work experience that
you've had just highlight the most
important things like if you were a
salesperson there is no need to describe
that you were selling stuff because this
is obvious this is this comes from the
title of your profession sales person
sells yes I have that
what do you can highlight though is how
you exceeded KPIs how you exceeded plans
how you go promoted three months in a
job like those things are worth
mentioning because they are showing
that your your professional that you're
a true leader like all of that stop if
you don't have any work experience
mentioned maybe conferences that you
took part in maybe volunteer projects
maybe publications but again less than
one page okay this is like super
important MIT is super creative and I've
seen some universities do that already
video statement a 60 second video I love
that because I'm a blogger but I know
some people are uncomfortable if you see
something like that if you see a video
statement or like a presentation please
don't be too creative just take your
phone and record yourself don't hire
crooks again I've done a lot of like MIT
admissions and I have seen so many
students actually hi Icarus to shoot a
60-second video or like higher animation
designers to do all of the animation no
need to do that like why the university
asked for a video they just want to see
you they wanted to see how you
communicate so your iPhone you a frontal
camera and whatever your phone you have
just talk about yourself open up like as
if you're talking to colleague at an
interview don't be too creative don't
spend too much time on it like better
focus in your exam but again video
statement is not something really common
and this is why I picked up an MIT MBAs
cuz they're doing some uncommon stuff
that I want you to know about normally
that was just the two or three personal
statements and that's it
no video stuff you might have an
interview later but it depends on the
university additional information you
always have that any application would
allow you to add some additional
information at the end of it and here
it's up to you I've added that I've been
doing ballet I think it's exciting
because it's Russian ballet and I don't
know I mentioned that I mentioned that
I've been to like 22 countries I
mentioned that I'm singing
semi-professionally like I mentioned my
hobbies and what makes me different and
that I'm passionate about languages you
can mention languages that you speak if
they haven't asked for that before so
anything that shows you as a person is
really important a letters of
recommendation there's a separate class
on letters of recommendation
but again something you have to remember
first they need to come from the
recommended directly so they either
submit it online or they send it
normally they submit it online but you
don't want to bother them too much like
if you're playing to seven universities
they're gonna be bothered so five or six
universities is the maximum that I would
advise in terms of applying because
there are so many personal statements
that you have to write those so many
recommendation letters depending on the
level of education for like MBA they
would want to see mostly professional
recommendations so basically say that
professional recommendations are
preferred from individuals who are able
to speak with certainty about your
professional achievements and potential
and this is true for any master's degree
normally like because masters as a
professional degree already and it's
suppose that you have some work
experience or like internship sometimes
you can do two recommendations one
academic one professional for your
master's which means that you can ask
your professor to submit a
recommendation and then your acts
manager or current manager for Bachelors
it mostly comes from real teachers I
would suggest your English teacher just
because they speak English and your most
favorite teacher or the teacher who
teaches and related subjects like if you
are applying to bash of economics I
would ask your math teacher to submit a
recommendation
the next thing they're asking for is
organizational structure this is very
specific to MIT they just want to see
how you see organizations but if we're
talking about something that's related
to art that's gonna be your portfolio
they would want to see what you've
painted of what you've done before if
that's like acting profession then they
might want to see how you acted like the
recordings of you acting they might
sometimes give you like specific tasks
like read Shakespeare or perform a
monologue like again for every
University this is different depending
on whatever you want to study and if
it's a PhD it's very important to
highlight your academic work the
Articles that we wrote the conference's
that you took pardon and things you've
done in terms of your research
transcripts and I'm gonna answer some
common questions related to try
so if you are applying for your master's
degree or your bachelors and you're
still completing your previous level of
education there is no need to submit
your diploma just yet well you can do
you can go to the administration of your
school University and ask them for your
current grades so they would give you a
paper with your current grades
you're gonna translate it into English
the thing is you can do translations for
yourself I just make sure they are good
and then you just submit those
transcripts with your application what
happens later when you get your diploma
they would want the original like paper
transcript so what you can do again you
go to university administration because
you don't if you have just one diploma
you don't want to send it to America so
you go to your administration and ask
them for an exact copy of a diploma and
they can do that this is Col like
transcripts and they put it in the
envelope you write the address of the
University they seal the envelope this
is really important like they put a
stamp on the envelope which means that
you didn't have access to what's inside
so you haven't tossed any documents but
this all happens only after you get
accepted and only after you accept the
invitation it's not like you have to do
it now at this stage just the copy of
your transcripts is enough if you
already have a diploma translated into
English and scan it and send it that's
it like you're gonna deal with all of
the originals later test scores you need
them before your flight you need to have
them ready some universities would be
able to wait for you for example what
happened to me when I was applying I
took my TOEFL of the day before the
application deadline and it takes like
two or three weeks to check the total
results so I just asked the University
is that okay
that I took TOEFL before at the deadline
but I don't have the results yet and
they told me that yes the most important
thing is that you've taken your tests
before the application deadline so be
careful with that they all have to be
taken before the application deadline if
you don't have the official scores yet
they're gonna receive them just don't
forget to mention your university in the
you know TOEFL or GRE or GMAT or SAT
application form because it allows you
to send the results automatically
application fees can be
different the minimum that I've seen is
like $15 the maximum you see right now
on the screen and be application fee
$250 you can ask for application fee
waivers always but again it depends like
MIT and top universities normally would
not provide application fee waivers
international students who they provide
them for are like college seniors active
US military Teach for America members
like you can read all of that but
talented international students are not
here but some universities tell you hey
if you have good exempt scores like if
your achievement is above 700 if your
SAT is about 1400 if your TOEFL is above
100 we can provide application fee
waiver why they do that because they
want your application because they want
talented people to apply to that
university they want to make sure their
average student profile is you know on
the higher end with all the great so
sometimes when you have good results
they would provide an application fee
waiver which means that you can apply
for free normally I would ask for an
application fee waiver after I've
completed all of the forms uploaded
everything then I would reach out to the
admissions committee and ask if they
have it but again if they have this
black and white here MIT does not
provide application fee waivers to like
married based application fee waivers
then there is no need to ask ok
because they're gonna send you back to
the website and you're just not gonna
look to a professional because a
professional person researches
everything before asking right ok the
information that I've given you in this
video would allow you to get accepted to
top universities let alone the average
was because I've gone through every
single detail and if you're serious
about it if you're taking every single
step that I've talked about seriously
you have really good chances of getting
accepted rule number one always believe
in yourself if you don't believe in
yourself nothing's gonna happen but if
you do if you work hard if you try your
best I'm sure you're gonna get accepted
to your dream University and I'm here to
help you ask questions like this video
if this information was useful because
it's really important for me to
see your feedback and if you're not yet
subscribed subscribe to this video if
you have friends who are applying to
American universities please share this
video because this is something like
really really really important because I
get so many questions regarding
applications and I've answered like I
try to answer a lot of those like the
major ones in this video and thank you
so much for watching I'll see you very
soon